feat(blog): August Newsletter (#6674)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/09/15/2023-09-15-jenkins-august-newsletter.adoc

Contributed by: author:wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

* Andrea Chiera completed his 3 months internship within the Security team, auditing 100 plugins and finding 20+ vulnerabilities
** link:/blog/2023/08/23/summer-internship-in-jenkins-security/[Summer Internship in Jenkins security ]
** Thank you very much for your involvement and also to the team for mentoring him
* Plugin security advisory published on July 12
** link:/security/advisory/2023-08-16/[Jenkins Security Advisory 2023-08-16]
** Four high score vulnerabilities, several medium and lower.
** A total of 13 plugins were affected
* The Security team is progressing on the CSP compliance project for Jenkins Core, encountering interesting corner cases that have to be covered.
** link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-71014[https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-71014]

[[Governance]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/governance.png[Governance Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

[[infrastructure]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/infrastructure.png[Infrastructure Update]

Contributed by: author:dduportal[Damien Duportal]

> * JDK21 (Early Available Temurin Edition) and Maven 3.9.4 generally available for developers on ci.jenkins.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JDK21 (Early Available Temurin Edition) and Maven 3.9.4 are generally available for developers on ci.jenkins.io.
```
adding word for readability, punctuation

> * JDK17 is the default for all the Jenkins controllers and agents on the Jenkins public infrastructure
> * Migration of the 2 last VMs to a new IPv6-enabled network: removed worth 1k$ (monthly) of unused cloud resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JDK17 is the default for all Jenkins controllers and agents on the Jenkins public infrastructure.
* Migration of the last two VMs to a new IPv6-enabled network removed a monthly cost of $1000 for unused cloud resources.
```
suggestion for syntax/readability

[[modern-ui]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/ui_ux.png[User Experience Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

[[platform]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/platform-modernization.png[Platform Modernization Update]

Contributed by: author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

> * There has been an issue with Docker Images republishing unexpectedly, causing old tags to be rebuilt. This is now solved.
> * JDK21:
> ** Work is ongoing to keep the JDK21 updated to an early access version in Jenkins’ infrastructure.
> ** Jenkins can run on JDK21 from version 2.419
> ** link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y3RVlniNmz-5Nd3LI-w58LDf760Ai7FqssP4zHuTv8U/edit?usp=sharing[+++A proposal from Mark Waite+++] regarding Java 11, Java 17, and Java 21 adoption roadmap in Jenkins is being considered.
> * Docker agents and controller:
> ** Ssh-agent: breaking change in 5.10.0 with the replacement of bullseye in favor of link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/299[bookworm].
> ** Controller:
> *** 2.414.1 brought a breaking change: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/pull/1687[update debian images to bookworm]
> ** Windows:
> *** Windows agent images are now using a Windows serve image, which is a breaking change.
> *** Windows 2022 images are being considered due to Windows 2019 reaching end-of-life.
> *** Instructions for Java 17 are still to be updated in the Windows docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There has been an issue with Docker Images republishing unexpectedly, causing old tags to be rebuilt.
This is now solved.
* JDK21:
** Work is ongoing to keep JDK21 updated to an early access version in Jenkins’ infrastructure.
** Jenkins can run on JDK21 since version 2.419.
** link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y3RVlniNmz-5Nd3LI-w58LDf760Ai7FqssP4zHuTv8U/edit?usp=sharing[+++A proposal from Mark Waite+++] regarding Java 11, Java 17, and Java 21 adoption roadmap in Jenkins is being considered.
* Docker agents and controller:
** Ssh-agent: breaking change in 5.10.0 with the replacement of bullseye in favor of link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/299[bookworm].
** Controller:
*** 2.414.1 brought a breaking change: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/pull/1687[update debian images to bookworm]
** Windows:
*** Windows agent images are now using a Windows server image, which is a breaking change.
*** Windows 2022 images are being considered due to Windows 2019 reaching end-of-life.
*** Instructions for Java 17 are still to be updated in the Windows docs.
```
Some syntax adjustments, and I'm not sure if it is supposed to be "Windows serve image" or "Windows server image". I suggested it to raise attention, but if it is intended to be `serve` then disregard!
